What does an 32-bit (operating) system/architecture - and the likes - mean?

It means that the size of the register in the processer is 32 bits, thus the register can represent 2<sup>32</sup> (4 billion) numbers.

Let assume that the hardware architecture we're using is [byte addressing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byte_addressing), which means that each byte in memory is individually addressable, the registers are able to refer to the address of 2<sup>32</sup> bytes.

As the result, the registers are able to manage the addresses of 2<sup>32</sup> bytes = 4 GB of memory.

This specifies the size of the **Virtual memory addresses (VMA)** that the system uses to allocate for processes. Each executing process will be given by the OS a set of range of virtual addresses called [**Virtual address space**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_address_space), in the process's point of view, this range of virtual addresses is also called **Virtual memory** (of each process).

---

Notice that the VMA is not the physical memory (RAM) and its size can be different from the VMA's. In fact, the OS needs to map the VMA generated by an executing process into the (real) physical memory addresses. This is the goal of the [**Virtual memory**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_memory) technique.

---

**Page Table**

Almost every virtual memory implementations divide a virtual address space into blocks of contiguous virtual memory addresses, called **pages**, which are usually 4 KB in size.

In order to translate virtual addresses of a process into physical memory addresses used by the hardware to actually process instructions, the MMU makes use of so-called **page table**, i.e., a data structure managed by the OS that store mappings between virtual and physical addresses.

An entry in the page table can have:
- Virtual memory address, for example 0 - 4086 (4000 bytes, or 4KB).
- Corresponding Physical memory address.
- Access Control flags: read/write/exec.
- Valid flag: Is the page in memory.
- etc.

Every process has its own pagetables. They might be shared with the parent process(copy on write) or with other processes(shared memory). But in general every process has its own.

